---
layout: post
title:  "LUMS Graduate Diaries with Mohammad Usman"
date:   2015-08-10 23:26:21
categories: LUMS Graduate Diaries
tags:
image: https://scontent.xx.fbcdn.net/hphotos-xta1/v/t1.0-9/s130x130/11214274_1113223962039789_2355110439582782464_n.jpg?oh=bc68191ca873e093f77926cc392ec0a4&oe=567C81DB
---

**#LifeAfterGrad** for Mohammad Usman (BSc Chemistry-Class of 2015)

"It’s really hard to digest the fact that I am writing about my #LifeAfterLUMS when it feels as if it were just yesterday when we first came to LUMS and started out our respective journeys. My story is going to be a long one. I deliberately didn’t try to summarize it. That’s because it’s not a personal statement meant for an XYZ university but the saga of a guy who loves to dream with his eyes open.

Flashback: I was extremely humbled when I got admitted to one of the most prestigious universities of Pakistan. I belonged to Quetta (Balochistan), a relatively underprivileged and under-represented city of Pakistan. The severity of lack of academic infrastructure can be highlighted from the fact that back when we (me and my friends) were doing O’ Levels, there were hardly three schools offering the same. Once, when we heard about a thing called “marking scheme”, and we rushed to our principal to ask about it, she bluntly answered, “Marks likhay to hotay hain paper per, chalo bhago”. Due to our acts of disobedience, we had become the worst of all creations in her eyes. Anyhow, after smoothly screwing up my O’ levels, I embarked upon the journey of A’ levels. That was perhaps the latent turning point of my academic career where I learnt the craft of studying through conceptualization and rationalization rather than nonsensical cramming and rote learning. I got good grades at the end, in fact, I topped. Then came the big question of what to do next? I took a gap year just to seek the answer to the very question. No, just kidding – I took the gap year for online gaming (CS 1.6, I am crazy about it).

I can clearly remember a friend coming to my house when we were preparing for A levels’ exams and creating his account to apply to LUMS. This was during the Fall of 2009. I had never heard of LUMS before. Upon inquiring about the university, I was told, “Bhai, Pakistan ki MIT hai”. I hadn’t heard of MIT either, hehe. While I was browsing through the LUMS website and feeling fascinated, I made up my mind to apply there at any cost. I decided I would join whatever department I got into and shatter the dream of my father to see me become a doctor/surgeon. At the end of my gap year, I applied to AKU, LUMS and BMC (Provincial Medical College of Balochistan). Soon came the rejection from AKU and acceptance from BMC. I was waitlisted for LUMS for a couple of months or so. Those months were quite depressing for me as I had to attend BMC (a morally, ethically and academically corrupt institute) in the meantime, which proved to be a hell for me. The fear of the unknown was slowly taking over me and I had almost given up my hope on LUMS. Then in August, my doorbell rang and I received the offer letter from LUMS. I faced opposition from every corner for giving up medicine for the sake of a mere Bachelor’s degree. I wasn’t even sure what would I do there. I had given only AS (Advanced Subsidiary) Mathematics and the option of Electrical Engineering was not open for me. But I had this belief buried deep down inside me that something over there was calling out for me. I only needed to realize this belief and not fear the unknown. 

I joined LUMS and was blown away soon after the O-week, by SSE. The academic rigor and the competitive environment and on top of that, my introversion wobbled me quite severely. I was one of the four folks amidst a batch of 250 who hadn’t given complete A levels’ Mathematics (AS+A2). Every starting course at SSE heavily involved mathematical concepts which were alien to me. This made me struggle big time. But it was the time when I had no other option but to realize my strengths. “bus mean se aur teen se uper rehna hai” was what always kept ringing in my ears throughout the first year. I would be sad, whenever that wouldn’t happen and happy when it did. At the end of first year, I remained in good standing and was ready to choose the major of my choice. 

Fantasizing was, is and will always be my favorite hobby. Alchemy, philosophy, astronomy, literature and medieval sciences have always been my romance and discovering the philosopher’s stone, the dream of my life. Grounded on this ideal and immature reasoning, I chose Chemistry. In the department, I met professors obsessed with sending their students to the US for pursuing higher studies. Anyhow, I wasn’t concerned with that at all. I just wanted to enjoy the courses and think about the graduate sorcery later. Side by side, I enrolled in many courses encompassing biology, literature, philosophy, economics and law. LUMS couldn’t go any smoother. I had already made up my mind to apply to the US for graduate studies following the footsteps of my seniors. Little did I know what awaited me. In the first semester of my final year, I was confronted with the task of completing 19 credit hours including two four-hour labs, senior project, appearing for GRE General, GRE Chemistry, TOEFL, applying to 11 universities, which my professors incremented to 18; they feared that because of relatively low GPA and scores in GREs and TOEFL, it might be hard for me to get admission in the US. I also had to write my Statement of Purpose (SOP), refine it a gazillion times till it became ‘perfect’ and collect 54 recommendations (three for each university). For those 54 recommendations, I had to remind my faculty 54 times a day that their recommendation is still pending. Massive motivation came from my seniors who kept reminding me that they too had been through this phase and urged me to not give up. It might give the impression that all these stressful events converged into the aforementioned trauma but it was not the case. 

The trauma came in the form of a course, namely Human Behavior which entails a large portion on psychological/mental disorders. I studied it during the most nerve-wracking phase of my life, when my mind was tired and my nerves were sapped. I remember a dialogue from a movie – there are some doors in the mind which should never be opened. Think it this way that Human Behavior opened some of those doors. Consequences? Mild depression, soul shuddering anxiety and excruciating insomnia. I remember how physically and psychologically broken I was when I was applying to the last couple of universities. I was failing to realize that it was an unseen battle with the fear of unknown that I would win. Why wouldn’t I? I was destined to win. Soon came my first admission offer from Texas Tech in January’ 15. There was no celebration because I was dealing with some other issues. This was followed by the second, then the third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth and the ninth. By April, I had nine offers from the leading universities of the US offering admissions in fully funded MS-PhD programs. This is perhaps the highest number of admissions a Pakistani has ever received for graduate studies (according to one of my professors). I was also admitted to Texas A&M which recruits only one student from the two continents, Asia and Africa, every year in their Chemistry program. I will be joining it this August to pursue my studies in Materials and Polymer Chemistry. But this was not enough for me to celebrate and to revel. The big celebration came later when I climbed up the deep, dark pit that I had fallen into during this entire process, when I conquered the fear of the unknown not by defeating it but by embracing it. Every moment was a celebration then. Every face seemed beautiful. Every voice sounded melodious. Every day felt like a new chance, a new life…I can go on and on and continue writing like Eckhart Tolle (I strongly recommend his book ‘The Power of NOW’ for a read). Throughout all this, I equipped myself with the attitude which is invaluable, that is celestial and that what I shall carry everywhere, in all walks of my **#LifeAfterGrad**uation.

Some suggestions that I have in mind and would love sharing with you.

- Be grateful. You are at LUMS. There is no place in Pakistan that can come even close to it. I assure you that. Call your parents daily. Make a special phone call to your father every now and then. Make them realize what they mean to you. Every word you say in their commendation revitalizes them. Ask them to pray for you. Prayers of elders take you to places beyond your imagination. 
- Do not study for grades. Study to learn. Open your mind. Absorb new ideas. OBSERVE! This is the most clichéd thing to say but the least to be done practically. Stop fearing the unknown. A couple of bad grades or failures cannot snatch from you what you have chosen for yourself. 
- Never listen to your mind. It is the most screwed up organ in your body biologically wired to always make you feel negative about yourself. YOU ARE NOT YOUR MIND. You are something higher, destined to thrive outside the physical dimensions. Don’t fool yourself to relieve your anxiety/worry by smoking and other cheap crutches. They kill you. Do not throw yourself into destruction with your own hands. Try to do some physical activity daily. It releases endorphins in your brain which manifest similar effects as those of morphine - Euphoria. 
- Make friends. Genuine ones. They are hard to find at LUMS. If found successfully, they will make your life pretty easy.
- Give into your obsessions. They are purer than the purest. They will guide you to the places in your inner world which you would have never explored before. 
- Dream big. Give your dreams the highest priority. If you perish while realizing them, you will be ranked equal to the saints. If you do succeed, you would be the best to have ever walked on the face of the earth. 
- Learn to love. Hold no grudges. Learn to let it go. Help others without being apprehensive about the DC or them getting higher grades or achieving more than you. Motive and intention matter. If positive, they WILL save and help you grow, ALWAYS. 
- Past is nothing, future is an illusion, present is superficial. There is only NOW. Make it perfect. Learn to live in the moment, live day by day. Mentally train yourself to treat every day as your last, do it NOW and then watch wonders happening."

<br><br>
[Source](https://www.facebook.com/1067719636590222/photos/a.1067734013255451.1073741826.1067719636590222/1113223962039789/?type=1)

