---
layout: post
title:  "LUMS Graduate Diaries with Sibtay H. Haider"
date:   2015-08-10 23:26:21
categories: LUMS Graduate Diaries
tags:
image: https://fbcdn-sphotos-h-a.akamaihd.net/hphotos-ak-xfp1/v/t1.0-9/s130x130/11752584_1121003324595186_1450217516790872981_n.jpg?oh=668af7c4243b191f66d86cb8f4aefc3c&oe=564FBCC0&__gda__=1447933969_764c49a9afc42dd693a16cd58f4e4619
---

**#LifeAfterGrad** for Sibtay H. Haider (BSc (Honors) Economics and Political Science-Class of 2014)

"In 2010 when I joined LUMS for my undergrad degree, it was surprising for me to see my batch-mates whining about the fact that they got rejections from abroad and thus they had to resort to LUMS. For me, LUMS was once in a life time opportunity and I tried giving my best during those four years and I think I survived well. 

LUMS introduced me to professional theater and event management (surprised?) and I really loved working in these two areas. In fact, I spent a major part of my time in LUMS arranging concerts, theater festivals and a little bit of drama (literally!). Now that I am pursuing a research career in urban and social policy, I am glad that theater is still part of my life. I am associated with a performing arts society from South India to learn classical dance forms such as Kathak and Kudiyattam.  

On the academic side, I really had no idea about which stream to pursue for a considerable time. I opted for Economics & Politics thinking it’d be something on interplay of Economics & Political Science. It later turned out to be just a major offered by two different departments. On a brighter side, I was able to take some really insightful courses such as Issues in Economic Policy and Western Political Philosophy, helping me a lot afterwards. 

Some insights from my experience during the four years spent in LUMS: 

• Try not judging people and keep yourself away from those who do. Believe me, it is like a chronic disease in LUMS and you’ll miss out half of the experiences (and fun) doing so. LUMS provide an eclectic mix of people and thus the associated exposure. Even if you have hated your seniors for Paindu Day, try being part of your batch on such rare occasions as you’ll never get the chance to assemble like this and have fun! 

• If you think something is going wrong, speak against it. You can come to LUMS, spend four years silently while facing hassle to get courses each semester (and burning your heart, cursing RO) or you can reach out to Mr. Latafat Baig, tell him you need this course and end up enrolling yourself in that course. I remember at the end of my freshman year, I applied for O-Week couch position but they put me in the volunteer list. I called up the convener and actually convinced him that I deserve a higher position (Ended up winning this - a rather lame - competition next year though!).  

• Join student societies. Big ones! They’ll provide you a MINDBLOWING exposure to bitter realities of this world. At the very least, they’ll prepare you to struggle in your life which I think is really needed for a meaningful one.   

• Try making lives better for others outside LUMS (even if it sounds very superficial). It could be joining LCSS for their weekend trips to Children Hospital and SOS Village or something as different as speaking up for minorities. LUMS is a privilege and not everyone has that in our country. 

**#LifeAfterGrad** is majorly about LUMS. The sheer nostalgia rooted in “outside pdc” text messages, Zakir Tikka, Dramafests & Olympiads, pdc’s elaichi chae, exam week madness, heated debates and arguments in Babar Asad’s office and all those things associated with the mysterious bubble of LUMS will keep calling you back. It is mysterious because you do not notice all of these happenings during the four years and at point, in fact, getting bored. But then, it strikes back when the Vice Chancellor hand over the degree to you on University’s commencement. You suddenly start missing everything. So while you are at LUMS, enjoy your stay.  

About Sibtay:
Sibtay graduated from LUMS in 2014, majoring in Economics & Politics. He is presently working on a transportation study in Lahore, supervised and funded by the International Growth Center & International Food Policy Research Institute. He will be joining Rutgers Urban Planning and Policy Development Program in August for his graduate studies. Sibtay is also running a DevLUMS initiative, a brief introduction of which is provided in the description of the group. (https://www.facebook.com/groups/1531381557083901/) 

On left: Sibtay at the LUMS Dramatics Society Performance in Stuttgart, Germany in Spring 2014

<br><br>
[Source](https://www.facebook.com/1067719636590222/photos/a.1067734013255451.1073741826.1067719636590222/1121003324595186/?type=1)

