---
layout: post
title:  "LUMS Graduate Diaries with Ali Raahim"
date:   2015-08-10 23:26:21
categories: LUMS Graduate Diaries
tags:
image: https://scontent.xx.fbcdn.net/hphotos-xfp1/v/l/t1.0-9/s130x130/11745592_1113596972002488_7314823876125382092_n.jpg?oh=d922492e6736375609daec1cf6801d35&oe=564C7250
---

**#LifeAfterGrad** for Ali Raahim (BSc Electrical Engineering-Class of 2012)

"This note may turn out to be long so for those who are just looking for some quick advice/life lessons, I am going to put these at the beginning. These are the rules/hacks that have worked for me. Considering that I am a risk averse person that doesn’t usually try radically new things and that my **#LifeAfterGrad** is only in its infancy, it is safe to say that my scope of experimentation has been somewhat narrow. However, that should not detract from the fact that I owe most accomplishments of my adult life (personal and professional) to these rules so I can assure you that with a bit of luck, they work:

1. Learn to make yourself insignificant. Now before you let your ego take over and execute a web-browser equivalent of stomping your feet and heading out the door, hear me out. Most conflicts/misunderstandings arise because people fail to see the other side. Most businesses fail because owners lose focus of what their customers want. Most projects fail because managers become too invested in themselves and their vision to remain objective. Most relationships fail because, well, you’re a jerk. You get the picture. Confidence is great; cognizance is better, in my opinion. Know what those you are dealing with want and you will instantly solve a lot of problems. And the best way to do that is to consider yourself irrelevant to the scheme of things (easier said than done, I know, but well worth the effort).   
2. Don’t try to re-invent the wheel. If you are amongst 99% percent of the population out there, you are not going to do it. There is no shame in that and trust me it won’t be your undoing as an entrepreneur/free thinker/whatever you aspire to be. See what works, model it to your benefit (but don’t copy and deprive someone of credit!) and then improve incrementally. Trust me you can apply this to any walk of life. Someone has probably treaded upon the same path as you; find them, learn from them and do it better. 
3. Last, and somewhat related to the previous one, look for shortcuts! Life is too short to do everything from scratch. Are you absolutely certain that your class is a waste of time? Think you can get what you want out of it (a good grade, basic interview-related knowledge or even a thorough understanding of concepts) by skipping classes and instead taking a crash course from a friend on the last day, sitting in a dorm room in M-2, with a bunch of like-minded friends, while taking a dozen table-tennis breaks and cracking the lamest dafuq-did-I-just-hear type jokes that make your stomachs hurt and ears bleed (guilty as charged!)? Then DO IT! Spend your newly minted time doing something better. 

Now that you have read through my nuggets of wisdom (and are eagerly looking forward to attending my overpriced motivational self-help seminar), let me tell you more about myself and my journey through and after LUMS. That’s the whole point of this thing, right?

I am just a regular guy who has had some incredible luck along the way. 

I got into LUMS after being rejected by almost all the Ivies and getting into a couple of places abroad that I didn’t really want to go to and couldn’t afford to either. Why LUMS and not any other equally good/better institutes in Pakistan? I had played football at LUMS on a few occasions prior to my admission and had come to love the place solely because of how well maintained their grounds were. And they had floodlights. Yes, floodlights! For when we had electricity, you know. However, I quickly convinced myself this couldn’t be the real reason why I wanted to go to LUMS and started looking for ‘smarter’ reasons to tell myself and everyone else. And as it happened, I hardly had to do any digging. A world-class faculty, state-of-the-art facilities and some extremely smart peers awaited me at the newly inaugurated School of Science and Engineering if I chose to accept the admission offer. And without wasting a moment, I did. In a nutshell, I owe my choice of university as much to Kabir sahib, the chief groundsman at LUMS at that time, as I do to the amazing educational set-up that LUMS offered.

Cliché alert: I always wanted to be an engineer. I didn’t know what type but I had heard from elders that Electrical Engineering had the “highest merit”. So imagine my enthusiasm at learning that this was the discipline that LUMS was offering. Yayy! I get to roll with the high merit pupils! I am sure you have come across those “What my friends think I do - What my parents think I do – What I actually do” memes for engineers. Well, in my case, I had a “What I think I would do” picture in my mind that wasn’t too different from what parents and friends in those memes think. As I learned the hard way, deriving the Schrödinger equation from basic laws of Physics wasn’t my cup of tea. Nor did I want to learn about transistors at a sub-atomic level. “Show me the robots and the cool stuff that engineers are supposed to do!”, I shouted. “Shut up and finish reading your Smith chart”, the gods of engineering replied. To cut through all the noise (signal processing geeks, calm down), an Electrical Engineering degree was much less glamorous than I thought it would be. 

However, as I often tell my wife (you’ll meet her shortly), I would pick the same major if I were to make the decision again. An engineering degree from LUMS opens up the world for you, and I don’t say that lightly. I believe it is more a training in how to learn and grasp difficult concepts and process them than it is about any other thing in particular. Sure, you can gain a lot of engineering-specific knowledge but that may not be what you want or need later on in your career. What you will need, however, is the ability to learn on the fly, analyze challenging problems and find ways of solving them. An engineering degree, particularly one at LUMS, gives you the ability to do that at the bare minimum. And sometimes, that is all you need. By no means do I intend to belittle the technical knowledge that my professors imparted or the way the curriculum is designed, all I’m saying is that the Electrical Engineering program at LUMS is much more than that. 

Are you by any chance wondering what I did when I was skipping classes that necessitated those semester-end crash courses? Well for the most part, I was dedicating my time to football and Sports at LUMS, a society that I had the honor of heading in my senior year. Apart from giving me some of the best friendships that I could ask for, if it weren’t for SLUMS, I wouldn’t be married to my beautiful wife, Hira! So much of what LUMS has to offer is based around the number of student-run societies that it houses. If you aren’t exploring what they do, you are missing out on a lot. I believe there is a place in LUMS for everyone; you just have to be willing to find it. 

**#LifeAfterGrad** has been super sweet- you have no idea how much mithai they stuff into your mouth at your nikkah! No, seriously, I have been lucky enough to have things fall in place for me ever since I graduated. My job at Engro Fertilizers right out of LUMS utilized 5% of my engineering knowledge but 95% of my engineering aptitude and I never felt out of my depth. Being from LUMS almost made me a shoe-in for the Fulbright scholarship, so the next step that I took was to gleefully accept admission and scholarship for an Engineering Management program at Duke. Currently, I am helping build a rapidly growing startup in Miami, which I hope to launch in Pakistan upon my return in less than a month.

That’s all folks. Thank you for reading. I don’t know about you but I had a lot of fun reminiscing my time at LUMS and I wish that feeling upon all of you once you graduate."

About Raahim:
Raahim is currently helping build a rapidly growing startup in Miami (Referrizer), which he hopes to launch in Pakistan very soon. After graduating from LUMS with a BS in Electrical Engineering, he worked at Engro Fertilizers for two years before getting admitted to Duke’s Engineering Management program on a Fulbright scholarship. He loves football above everything else. Well he did anyway, before he met his wife, Hira (LUMS BA-LL.B, 2012), and now football comes in at number two.

On left: Raahim at Fitzpatrick Centre at Duke University in Durham, NC in 2015

<br><br>
[Source](https://www.facebook.com/1067719636590222/photos/a.1067734013255451.1073741826.1067719636590222/1113596972002488/?type=1)

