---
layout: post
title:  "LUMS Graduate Diaries with Fazlur Rahman"
date:   2015-08-10 23:26:21
categories: LUMS Graduate Diaries
tags:
image: https://scontent.xx.fbcdn.net/hphotos-xpf1/v/t1.0-9/s130x130/1912187_1118715901490595_5657685520684413891_n.jpg?oh=a05629235a1ece763fd025eee92d37c3&oe=564891EB
---

**#LifeAfterGrad** for Fazlur Rahman (BSc (Honors) Economics-Class of 2012)

"I still say that getting into LUMS was the best thing ever happened to me. My story is similar to many of other LUMS alumni here who went through a lot in making one of the most difficult decisions in life; choosing the college and major. Since my childhood, my family had the expectations of me becoming a doctor or engineer, just like what most of the South Asian parents dream about. I did follow their advice, took Biology in Grade 9 to keep both medical and engineering options open. I did like science and mathematics, and pursued pre-engineering in my high school. Even after participating in many science and engineering competitions, I was still unsure whether I should pursue Aeronautical or Mechanical Engineering, or should I go for Business Education. I got introduced to National Outreach Program which gave me awareness about LUMS and its prestigious Business and Social Sciences programs. The choice of electives helped me in making my decision in favor of LUMS, as I wanted to explore different areas of study. A college is a place where you can discover yourself, and where you can begin to truly realize what you want to do in future. I found other universities’ programs quite rigid with limited choice of coursework, and hence decided in favor of LUMS. Another decision-making point was the ability to take classes without declaring major in your first year, and then decide what you want to opt as a major. I was glad to have this option available at a university where the acceptance rate is as low as 8%.

My four years at LUMS had both ups and downs. I started with a very good GPA, which enabled me to have major of my choice; Economics at the end of my freshmen year. I did like Economics but I got distracted by extra-curricular activities and spent too much time in managing student organizations. I got the opportunity to lead one of the biggest student-run events in the country, LUMS Olympiad. Looking back now, I do see value of student leadership roles in my life, both in terms of decision-making and managerial skills. However, I do believe that student leadership experiences should not come at the cost of GPA. Fortunately, I got selected for the US State Department Exchange Program which provided me another chance to prove myself in academics. I was able to get excellent GPA during my exchange program. I also participated in cultural and community service activities, travelled more than 12 states, and also did one internship in mere 4 month duration. My success at the exchange program boasted my confidence and it helped me in getting admission in fully-funded MBA program at Duquesne University in Pittsburgh, from where I graduated with honors last year.

The graduate program was like a roller coaster ride. I would say my LUMS experience prepared me well as I was able to manage my studies, Graduate Assistantship and 3 internships very well. I was well-aware how important my coursework was for my career. I did 3 internships during the program, worked in both public and corporate sectors, including a Fortune 500 Company. These experiences helped me to further explore my passion and interest, and where I can be the best fit. I learned many lessons which will guide me throughout my life, and I will share them in my advice. After graduation, I got the great opportunity to work at H. J. Heinz & Company (now, The Kraft Heinz Company) as Demand Planner. Here, I am utilizing both my Economics and MBA degrees to make million-dollar decisions every day.

Now, some advice based upon my own experience:

Find your passion: It is never late to spend some time to find what you are passionate about. May be you used to dream about a career, when you were a kid. May be your parents or counselors motivated (or pressurized) you to follow a career path which they thought will be the best for you. In the end, what matters is what you like, and what you want to do in your life. It is not an easy decision. Some people take years to decide, and some people do see gradual change in their interests. You need to discover yourself and make a choice. One way is to experience, either in the form of doing internships, or doing something which is relevant to you what you think you will like doing. From education perspective, enrolling or auditing the courses can be helpful. The broad range of electives offered at LUMS and the flexibility to change your major within your school is definitely a plus point, which you should avail if needed.

Get experience during your college education: Continuing the previous point, if you experience something, you will most likely be able to make a right career or education choice. During my sophomore year, I got the opportunity to work at Packages Limited in Supply Chain Management. This first internship made my mind that I want to pursue my career in Supply Chain. I did explore other relevant fields at multiple internships, but again, my experiences enabled me to make the choice. Same for graduate school, it is a tough choice and has higher opportunity cost, and work experience will definitely help you in making this decision. Also, the work experience during your undergraduate program will give you an edge over other graduates. I know that it is almost impossible to do internships or work during Fall or Spring semesters at LUMS, but believe me, if you can do anything relevant to your coursework, or where your passion is, it will definitely be helpful in your life.

Be prepared for the change: This is one of the lessons I learned in my life here in US, and during my MBA program. From business perspective, we see change all the time. Mergers and acquisitions happen, job responsibilities get changed, and employees get moved here and there. Keep this in mind that change is inevitable. Wherever you go, and whatever you do, with time you will see big changes. Always be ready for it, accept the challenge, and adapt yourself to the new thing. Adaptive to change is the soft skill which many employers have started to look in their prospective recruits. Also, keep up with the industry benchmarks, and strive for the best. Raise the bar every day, and build your ‘core competency’ through professional advancement and continuous improvement. This will help you in not only adapting but also managing the change.

Use the resources: How to find your passion, get opportunities to gain experience in your field, and to build your capacity? The simple answer is by using the right resources. College resources are mostly under-utilized, which you should utilize well. Make the most of career counseling, instructor’s office hours, and most importantly, your advisor’s time. Choose mentors and stay connected with them. It is not necessary that you will get the best advice, but you will learn something every time you meet them. Share your ideas and experiences with them, and take their opinion. Build relationships, which will help you in your entire life.

Don’t forget to enjoy your time: After so much serious talk, I do want to say that I had the best time of my life at LUMS. So, don’t forget to have fun. You will never get back your college life. There are priorities which you should be taking care of, but give some time to yourself, friends and family. It’s important. Go on adventure trips, be part of student societies, and build everlasting friendships. This will create such bond which you will cherish your entire life. I was lucky to have great friends, who I value a lot, and will value forever. So, spend good amount of time with them, and learn from each other. After all, life is about experience, not just education or career."

About Fazl:

Fazl is currently working at Kraft Heinz Company as Demand Planner, a Fortune 100 and world’s fifth largest food and beverages company, headquartered in Pittsburgh, PA. Fazl does demand planning (forecasting for production) for 8 different brands of Heinz including Heinz Heritage Pickles for entire U.S. Business and Exports across the globe. Fazl graduated from John F. Donahue Graduate School of Business of Duquesne University in 2014 with honors. Previously, Fazl worked at Mylan Pharmaceuticals and Allegheny County Government in the Greater Pittsburgh region. Fazl loves living in the historic Steel City, and supports Pittsburgh Steelers, Penguins and Pirates teams.

On left: Fazl as Heinz Picklesburgh Captain in Pittsburgh in 2015.

<br><br>
[Source](https://www.facebook.com/1067719636590222/photos/a.1067734013255451.1073741826.1067719636590222/1118715901490595/?type=1)

