---
layout: post
title:  "LUMS Graduate Diaries with Anum Suhail Bashir"
date:   2015-08-10 23:26:21
categories: LUMS Graduate Diaries
tags:
image: https://scontent.xx.fbcdn.net/hphotos-xaf1/v/t1.0-9/s130x130/10403685_1110072355688283_5041684545972900622_n.jpg?oh=0d2b38308f35284ac4a62c4a5e04816d&oe=564923AD
---

**#LifeAfterGrad** for Anum Suhail Bashir (BSc (Honors) Economics-Class of 2011)

"Like many others, joining LUMS was one of the best decisions of my life. Thinking back to 2007 I can easily say that I applied not because it was the most prestigious university in Pakistan, but because my friends were, because I had a cousin here whom I looked up to, because I’d attended YLES and simply been amazed. I had no idea what I wanted to do or who I wanted to be, which is unfortunately, a feeling that never goes away. When the time to decide a major arrived I was confused beyond belief, sometimes my mind would wander into believing I should be a psychologist, other times it would panic and tell me to pick a safer route with the greater employment scope. In hindsight it was probably not the smartest decision, but I opted for an Economics major just so I could take courses with my friends. Chances are that like me, most of you came from a position of academic excellence in school only to realise that you weren’t that brilliant after all, there were countless times where you could find me huddled over books with my closest friends trying to explain a particular economics concept or when we’d be struggling with another reading. It was demotivating to say the least but its moments like these that teach you that you can either mope around or stop cursing everything and make the most of it. It was at this point that I ventured into AIESEC, an overwhelming experience where I not only made some of my closest friends today, but where I felt a part of something larger, somewhere I actually made a difference. My AIESEC journey may have been bumpy but it taught me how to work with people from all spheres of life and how to tackle the impossible. After graduating I joined the USAID Firms Project where I stayed for almost 3 years before deciding that I needed more, a different direction, something to break the monotony. Not wanting to move away from the development sector, I carefully considered my options before jumping into a degree in International Business and Politics. I didn’t expect to focus on an area such as Global Politics of Health but its where my interest suddenly took me. The lesson from this is that even if you set out to achieve something particular, never turn away other opportunities or paths simply because they don’t comply with that one idea in your mind. It is often the most spontaneous and unexpected plans that make you the happiest. 
I feel I’m supposed to give you advice on how to plan your life, but the truth is no one knows what they’re doing. **#LifeAfterGrad** isn’t about finding your calling or settling down with a particular achievement; at times you’ll feel like your life is stuck in a rut, other times you’ll be searching for greater meaning; it’s a strange form of limbo but that doesn’t mean it’s bad. Everyone is struggling but how you deal with that uncertainty is what defines you; be humble, grateful and ambitious because that is what never leaves you. Endeavour to make as many memories as possible, meet new people and never ever shy away from something because it’s new. I always think of life as a novel; different characters; different chapters, each come and go; when one phase ends, you just need to make yourself look forward to the next stage being set up, new props, new actors, and a new script." 

About Anum:
Anum completed her undergraduate degree from LUMS in 2011 with a major in Economics and a minor in Mathematics. After working on an economic growth project implemented by the USAID subcontractor Chemonics, she moved to London where she is currently pursuing a postgraduate degree in International Business and Politics from the Queen Mary University of London and scrabbling with work.

<br><br>
[Source](https://www.facebook.com/1067719636590222/photos/a.1067734013255451.1073741826.1067719636590222/1110072355688283/?type=1)

